# Alternate Donut Pairings

To help our colleagues in the office meet others that they wouldn't normally interact with, we set up the [Donut App](https://www.donut.com/) in Slack to pair up people every couple of weeks and encourage them to chat. As this became more popular, we were limited by how many people we could pair up at once (50 at the time, now 24). To get around this, I wrote a pairing script script for fun in a couple of hours so that we could pair as many people as we want.

This script allows anyone with a basic installation of python to create pairs from the names in `names_and_pairs.txt`. Every time a set of pairs is created, the pairs are tracked in the same file to not be repeated at a later point. You do not need to worry about the tracked pairs unless you run out of pairs and need to erase them to start fresh. People can be added at any time on a new line or removed if they are no longer interested in being paired and new pairs can be formed without having to reset the tracked pairs.

To achieve the unique pairings, the script shuffles the list of names, takes people 2 at a time to make candidate pairs, checks that the pairs have not met yet, repeats the shuffling and pairing until all are new pairs, adds the new pairs to the text file to keep track of them, and returns the new pairs. It can also handle an odd number of people by grouping 3 people together and making sure they don't meet as pairs later. Since it relies on random pairings, it is not the most efficient, and can miss viable pairings. We had no need to improve it further though because for around 50 people, it can do around 20 rounds of pairings before it starts to hit the max tries allowed. With a new pairing every 2 weeks, we could have people meet up for almost a year before having to reset the pairings.
